[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The fuel for the
engine is passion.
And people think I'm
either born with it
or I am not born with
it, I either have it
or I don't have it.
Well, that's not true.
There's three things you can
do that will bring passion
into any area of your life
that's important to you.
>> Do you have an
impossible dream?
Most of us do.
We have help for you today.
We have Steven
Scott here who has
written a book called "Simple
Steps to Impossible Dreams."
>> Hi, thanks for
having me back.
>> You know, I think that
it's very important for this
audience to know that
you have achieved some
of your impossible dreams.
That you went from a
poverty stricken young man--
>> Failure.
>> --failure to a multi,
multimillionaire today.
And you know, one
of the questions
that came up in my mind is you
if you've made so much money--
I understand you did
the Jane Fonda video--
>> Treadmill.
>> --treadmill video that
made so much money and Richard
Simmons' video that made him so
much money and made you so much
money, why did you write a book?
>> Well, going back to something
we said in our last show,
I flunked out of my first nine
jobs in my first six years
after college.
After nine jobs, I was
earning less than half
the national average.
Job number three, a
Harvard MBA told me
I would never
succeed in my career.
And as a 23-year-old,
I believed him.
And I thought of
myself as average.
In fact, I thought of myself
as a little less than average.
And yet, on job number 10,
we created over a billion
worth of companies and kind
of disproving my critics.
But at the same
time, I discovered
that it was some very
specific strategies that
had turned my life around.
And I originally
wrote my first book
to teach my children how
to work through failure.
This particular book,
I wrote to teach people
how they can use these
same strategies to achieve
their impossible dreams.
And somebody once said,
do you do this for money?
No.
Each time I do a book I
lose about a million dollars
in income because I have to go
out on the road for the book
and that takes me
out of my work.
And so I can't
produce television
while I'm on the road
promoting a book.
But it is a way for
me to show people
that they really can achieve
their impossible dreams.
Because every person
I've met that's achieved
their impossible dreams has
been a very ordinary person,
ordinary IQs, usually
sub-ordinary backgrounds.
As we mentioned, I went to high
school with Steven Spielberg.
Both of us were the
least likely to succeed
in our high school, very shy,
full of acne, very skinny,
totally unknown.
And yet we both did the exact
same things-- him in film
and me in business.
And as I met a few
other people who
have achieved their
impossible dreams,
like Michael Landon, Lee
Iaccoca, found out we
all did the same things.
But these are things that are
not taught in high school.
They're not taught in
college or grad school.
And that's why the book
to teach these things.
>> So you feel like an
obligation to teach people how
to do it?
>> You know what?
I feel a passion for it
more than an obligation.
>> You talk about passion.
>> It's fun to see people that
see the light go on and see
them say, hey, I can
achieve my dreams.
Whether the dream's
in marriage, they're
dreams in relationships,
dreams in parenting,
or dreams in
business and career.
>> You talk about Oprah here
when you talk about passion.
>> Right.
>> And I love that quote
of Oprah's that you put
in your book.
>> Yeah.
The first time I
saw Oprah interview,
I didn't even know she existed
until Barbara Walters did
an interview with her right
after "Color Purple" had
come out.
And Barbara asked
a question that she
thought was going to lead
down the road of the impact
of discrimination and so on.
And she asked
Oprah, she said, it
must have really been
terrible growing up
under the pangs
of discrimination
as a little girl in the South.
How did that make you feel?
And Oprah thought
for maybe one second.
And she said, Barbara, I
learned very early on in life
there is no discrimination
against excellence.
And it just-- Barbara
didn't know what to do.
She was silent maybe
for 10 or 15 seconds
because it killed the
whole train of thought
she was going to lead down.
And she didn't know
where to go from that.
I jumped up out of
my seat and cheered,
because I thought,
boy, that is so true.
And that's when
she won my respect.
But in "Simple Steps
to Impossible Dreams,"
we compare people to a rocket.
We've all got these
seven massive engines.
We're held down to the launching
pad by six giant chains.
So we show you how
to cut the chains.
We show you what the engines
are and how to ignite them.
The fuel for the
engine is passion.
And people think I'm
either born with it
or I am not born with it.
I either have it
or I don't have it.
Well, that's not true.
There's three things you can
do that will bring passion
into any area of your life
that's important to you.
And Oprah is a perfect
demonstration of passion.
I don't care if she talks
about sliced bread, or poetry,
or books, or mad cow
disease, whatever
she talks about on
her show she always
gains this tremendous
passion for the subject.
And why?
Because she's a
passionate person?
No.
Because she's learned
how to bring passion
into any situation.
When we bring passion
into our marriage,
into our parenting skills, into
our relationships on the job,
into our work, then it just
fires those engines up.
And we achieve things that we
never dreamed were possible.
But you have to know
how to bring it in.
And that's what we get
into in the chapter
on Oprah Winfrey and passion.
>> I want to know now.
>> OK.
Basically, passion is
made up of three things--
number one, vision,
number two, hope--
sincere hope, not wishing,
but having a well-founded hope
of achieving that vision--
and number three,
fulfillment as you begin up
the path of achieving
that vision.
Now, most people, they fail in
the first place with vision.
They never define their dreams.
And we know from our
previous discussion
that engine number one is
this dream conversion process.
It's defining your dreams
in writing and then
converting that dream
into specific goals, goals
into step, steps into tasks.
When you do that, when you start
out with your dream in writing,
now you have a concrete
vision of something
you want to achieve.
OK?
So there is the vision
you need for passion.
When you create
the roadmap to get
there, which is converting it
into goals, steps, and tasks,
now, you have a
well-founded hope.
You now see that that impossible
dream is now possible.
You've just created a
map on how to get there.
Now, you start to
complete the first task.
You complete that task
and it feels good.
You've now taken your first step
toward your impossible dream.
OK?
So that brings the
fulfillment side.
So now, you're really
starting to bring passion.
And just by using
the dream conversion
process that we teach--
>> This all has
to be in writing.
>> It all has to be
written down, yeah.
If you don't write it
down, it won't happen.
>> You're so firm on that.
>> Absolutely.
>> You don't move.
>> No, no.
There are a few
people in life who
don't have to write
it down, maybe
one out of every out of every
50 million or 60 million.
>> Oh, really.
>> Yeah, but no more than that.
Those are the people that
have almost near photographic
memories and are so
focused that they don't
need to write things down.
But most people
aren't that focused.
I can ask a crowd of 1,000
people what are your dreams
and I get 999 blank looks.
Well, that doesn't mean
that they don't have dreams,
it means they just
haven't focused on them.
But when it's in writing,
you focus on it, see?
And you can go back to
it every single night.
You can say, OK,
what is my dream?
This.
What are the tasks
I need to complete?
This.
What date do I need
to complete that task?
Here.
Ooh, that's coming up quick.
I better get it done.
OK?
>> Well, I know if I have a
lot of things to do in the day,
if I make a list, for some
reason I feel obligated that I
have to do everything on that.
But you go further
on lists than that.
>> Yeah.
We have to break it
down in priorities.
We can't just break it down into
things that have to be done.
We have to look
at the things that
reflect our values and
our true priorities.
And those go to the
top of the list.
And we put an A by those things.
And other things that have
to be done get a lower
rating like a B or a C.
And because we want our day
to reflect our values
and our priorities,
not the urgencies of the
day, not the telephone
calls that need to be made
or that interrupt our day.
And we show you,
engine number seven,
I call it laser accurate
priority planning.
>> We're so much more inclined
to do the easy stuff first even
though they may be
a C on the list.
>> Right.
>> Get it out of the way so you
don't have to think about it.
>> Yeah.
And because it is easy and
it's not uncomfortable,
but, oftentimes, the
most important things,
they are uncomfortable.
They take a little effort.
They might be a little scary.
So those are the things
we tend to procrastinate.
>> And also, they need
a big slog of time.
>> Yeah.
Well, we think they do.
Actually, when you start
to do it the right way,
you find out almost nothing
needs a lot of time.
It just needs focused
time where you're really
focused on getting it done.
And this chapter alone
really puts a person
in charge of their day and puts
them into control of their day.
And it really is fulfilling.
It's liberating once you get
into the habit of doing it.
>> Suppose you don't
know what your vision is,
do you still write down, "I
don't know what my vision is?"
>> No.
No, what you do is you
start out by dividing
your life into the most
important areas of life.
OK?
So some people have
three important areas,
some people have five.
I have seven important areas.
You then start in the
most important area.
And you say, OK, if I
could have anything I want,
anything, what would that be?
That becomes your
impossible dream, see.
And then we build the
road map to get there.
>> That's your vision.
>> Yeah.
It's not as hard as you think.
>> Really.
So that's the key.
If I could have anything
I wanted in this area--
>> What would it be?
>> That's where you start.
>> Wow, well that's quite
a way to start, I'll say.
We're talking to
Steven Scott here
who has written a book that
you don't want to miss.
It's called "Simple Steps
to Impossible Dreams--
The 15 Power Secrets
of the World's Most
Successful People."
And one of them is
sitting here with us.
So stay with us.
We have a lot more
interesting stuff
to ask this wonderful author.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're talking to Steven Scott,
one of my favorite authors,
about his book "Simple
Steps to Impossible Dreams."
We're after helping you make
your impossible dreams come
true.
Welcome back.
>> Thanks.
>> You know, one of the things
that I think is a tendency--
I know it's been with me--
that if you want to go into
business with someone, you say,
oh, I have to find
somebody who has
the same passion
and the same likes
and is the same kind of
personality as I have.
>> Yeah.
And that's wrong.
You want to find somebody
that has the same vision,
but they need a complementary
personality type.
And that's not just
in business, that's
in any area where you want
to partner with somebody,
whether it's your spouse.
And so we give a five-minute
personality test in the book.
And it's real simple.
It's the one test in
life you can never fail.
>> I thought I flunked it.
>> Yeah, no, you
didn't flunk it at all.
All it does is it tells you
your dominant personality
type and your sub-dominant.
And then that tells you your
strengths that are natural,
your natural inclinations,
your natural strengths,
your natural weaknesses,
what motivates you,
the best way to communicate
with you, and so on.
And it's really a fun test.
Basically, what we teach is that
there's four basic personality
types.
And we compare them to animals.
There's lions, otters, golden
retrievers, and beavers.
>> Tell us what the
different ones mean.
>> OK.
Now, you're a lion.
I'm a lion.
Lions are take-charge people.
They're either the boss or
they think they're the boss.
Put them in any situation
with other people,
and if nobody's taking
charge, the lion
will very quickly take charge.
They're project oriented.
They're very focused on
getting projects done.
They're not detail oriented.
A lot of details will
fall between the cracks.
They're not good at
details, but they're
good at getting the
overall project done.
They tend to run over
people, because they're
so focused on getting
the project done.
They tend to not to be
sensitive to the needs
of the other people
working on the project.
Their strengths are they
get a lot of things done.
They're real good
one-way communicators.
They're visionaries.
They tend to be
entrepreneurs, for example.
Their weaknesses are that
they can appear to be abrupt.
They can appear to be rude.
They can appear
to be insensitive.
And they are great one-way
communicators, good talkers.
They're not good listeners.
But a lion can choose to learn
how to be a good listener.
>> So they shouldn't have
another lion as a partner.
>> Not necessarily,
not necessarily.
In fact, more times than
not, they shouldn't.
But they tend to partner real
well with golden retrievers
and otters.
Now an otter is a
party waiting to Happen
everything has got to be fun.
They make things fun.
They walk in, they beam.
They're enthusiastic.
They're optimistic.
They tend to be a little
impulsive, a little unrealistic
sometimes.
But they're real social.
In fact, if they're in
a meeting with a lion,
they get a little
upset that the lion
wants to get down to business
because they're still talking.
OK?
Now, otters are also good
one-way communicators.
Talking's natural, listening
isn't to the otter.
So they, like the lion, have to
choose to learn how to listen.
>> So this is all
in your book here.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> You take this test and you
find out which one you are.
>> Yeah.
And not only once you
recognize the four types,
it's easy for you to see
what type your children are,
your mate, your boss, your
employees, your peers.
And that enables you to
communicate a lot better
with them.
And it enables you to
play to their strengths
as well as it allowing
you to strengthen or play
to your strengths and
strengthen your own weaknesses.
The third type-- and this
is one of my favorites--
are golden retrievers.
Golden retrievers are
everybody's best friends.
They are people pleasers.
They're very empathetic.
They're great listeners.
They're non-confrontive.
If you told a golden retriever,
I want you to fire somebody,
they would worry about
it for three weeks.
And when it comes down
to firing the person,
they'd actually
be sick that day,
because they can't confront.
Their weakness is that they tend
to be emotionally malnourished.
Because they're so focused on
meeting everybody else's needs,
they don't care about
their own needs,
they don't look out for it.
They also tend to store
hurts because they
don't want to confront anybody.
They don't want to hurt
anybody's feelings.
And those hurts
can eat them alive
and make it hard for them to
forgive somebody who hurts them
over and over again.
But they'd rather do that
than communicate the hurt.
But they're everybody's
best friends.
I have a son who's
a golden retriever.
And I mean he is so loving,
and patient, and empathetic to
people.
The last one is the beaver.
Your son's a beaver.
And beavers are very
detail oriented.
Lions need to have beavers,
because lions miss detail.
Beavers don't ever
miss a detail.
And they're very methodical.
They're focused on accuracy.
Their weakness is they can
have such high standards
for themselves that
they oftentimes
frustrate themselves.
And if they don't learn how
to relax those standards
for their spouses
and their children,
they can really make
it hard on their kids.
So they need to learn how to
relax some of their standards
for harmony's sake.
Whereas the golden
retriever needs
to learn how to be a
little more confronted,
they are so focused on
harmony that they oftentimes
will take a wrong decision or
put up with something that's
wrong rather than confront it.
But once we know our
personality types,
then we can really have a lot
of fun, and more tolerance,
and better communicate
with the people around us.
>> So if you want to
go into a business,
or even have a marriage,
you shouldn't marry or go
into a business with
someone just like you?
>> Usually, you won't marry
that person anyway, because--
>> You and I would never
make it in business.
>> In business,
we probably would,
but we would have to recruit
some otters along the way.
We'd also, because
we're both lions,
we'd have to map
out our territories.
And the way lions can peacefully
coexist is if you say,
OK, now this is my territory--
>> This is mine.
- >> Keep out and I'll
keep out of yours.
And then we can really
be effective together.
But you need to know how
to set those boundaries.
And that's why, once
again, personality types
are real important.
But that's just in one
little section of the book.
That's about eight or nine
pages out of the book,
but it's very powerful.
>> But it's very interesting,
because I think people try
to get someone like them
to go into business.
And that's not right.
>> No, it isn't.
And also it's hard to tolerate.
A lion who is married
to a golden retriever,
he wants his wife to be more--
to take a position on things.
Just make a decision.
And she says, well, I
can't make a decision,
because she wants you to be
happy and him to be happy.
And if I try to make her do
that, that's as wrong for me
to do that as it would
be for her to say,
honey, don't make a decision.
Just be quiet.
Just listen.
OK?
Well, she should tell me to do
that, but it takes work for me
to learn how to listen.
It takes work for her to
learn how to be confrontive.
So she's got to be tolerant
and patient with me--
>> We are here to
teach each other.
>> That's right.
And we can when we know
our personality types.
>> Now, what about--
one of the things
that you say that I
have found that most people--
if they have a good
idea, they don't
want to give any part of away,
>> Right.
And you say, that's
the big mistake.
>> Right.
We need to share--
anything of value, we
need to share with others.
For example, if I want
to grow my business,
I don't hoard it
all to myself, but I
find key people, partners,
and key employees,
and so on, and I offer them a
chance to own a piece of it.
Now, they have incentive
like you can't believe.
And if I don't give
them that incentive,
I may own 100% of a small pie.
But if I give them
that incentive,
I may end up owning 20%-30%
of a huge, giant pie,
which is much better.
When my partner gave me
a piece of the business,
he didn't realize it, but he was
ensuring that he, and his sons,
and his grandchildren would
all become multimillionaires.
And if he hadn't given me
that piece of the business,
he might have made a
million dollars or two,
but that's about as far
as it would've gone.
Because I just gained so
much incentive and motivation
when he gave that piece.
So it's never being wise to
hoard things and be selfish.
I can't find any wisdom
in selfishness whatsoever.
>> Plus the other part of it
is that if you're starting out
in a small operation, you don't
have money to really recruit
the best people.
So you say this is one way to
get people is by giving them
a piece of the action.
>> Yeah, exactly.
And you can recruit
really smart people.
Bill Gates is a perfect example.
You know, he has Steve Ballmer.
And he had Paul Allen.
Without those two people,
Microsoft wouldn't exist today
and Bill wouldn't
be a billionaire.
He might be a millionaire,
but he certainly
wouldn't be a billionaire.
But because he recruited
the right partners,
gave them a big
piece of the action,
they all became
multibillionaires.
And we have Microsoft
as a result.
>> You know, you talk a lot
here about passion and setting
priorities and positiveness.
And you talk a lot
about making task lists.
And then you go and
say these things also
apply to relationships.
>> Oh, every strategy that I
give in the book for business
is just as powerful when
it's applied to personal
relationships.
And to me, personal
relationships
are more important
than business.
So I gave illustrations
of how to bring those
into your marriage.
For example, Helen
Keller positiveness,
that's one of the seven engines.
And there's one
technique you can
use that can take even
the most negative person
and give them a real
positive feeling.
And what happens is
that engine isn't
so important for our success
as it is for our happiness.
If you attain success without
happiness, it's real empty.
But when you learn how
to use Helen Keller's
real simple
technique for turning
even the most negative situation
into a very positive one--
>> What is it?
>> OK.
It's called refocusing.
OK, now, for example,
I had a flight
canceled one day which
meant I wasn't going
to be able to direct
a crew in Atlanta
that I was supposed to
direct, a film crew.
And the flight was delayed
over and over again.
For 3 hours, we
sat on the tarmac.
And I could have focused, like
everybody else on the plane,
I'm going to be late.
I'm going to miss this.
Somebody else is going
to have to direct
that segment of my film.
And all these
negative things and I
would have been wiped out.
Instead what I did, I chose
to refocus my attention
on the pilot.
And I became very grateful
that he was more concerned
about getting me someplace
safely than maybe
getting me someplace on time.
Because my life to my
six children and my wife
and myself is far more important
than making one film date.
OK?
So I refocused on that.
I then focused on
some things I could
get done in that three hours.
I wrote a whole chapter in this
book during that three hours
I was sitting on that
plane, because I went
and I asked, can I
open up my computer
since we're just sitting here.
And they said, yes.
So I focused on that
and ended up making it
a real productive
and very positive
experience instead of
letting my mind stay
where it automatically
set, which is oh, no, we're
going to be late.
The crew is going to have
to be directed by somebody
else and so on.
And it's a real
simple technique.
But that's one of two techniques
we teach in that chapter.
>> If you had one thing in 30
seconds that you think would be
the key to happiness and
success, what would it be,
Steve?
>> It would be realizing that
you can achieve your most
impossible dreams when you
simply know the strategies,
when you have the keys.
It's kind of like
a key to your car.
You can't run down a highway on
your feet at 80 miles an hour.
But if I give you
a car and a key,
you don't need intelligence.
You don't need to
be an engineer.
You just stick the
key in the slot,
turn it, put your feet on
the gas, and you get there.
And that's what the
book's all about.
>> Well, I think we've
had a wonderful time here.
We bring you miracles
on this show.
And we've been talking to
this fabulous author who has
written such a helpful book.
It's going to help you.
"Simple Steps to
Impossible Dreams--
The 15 Power Secrets
of the World's Most
Successful People,"
Steven Scott.
Don't miss it.
And keep coming back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]